Revisit documentation part 1: divio-like landing page, installation page, configuration page (#1233)
huggingface/huggingface_hub: docs/source/installation.mdx

# Installation

Before you start, you will need to setup your environment by installing the appropriate packages.

🤗 `huggingface_hub` is tested on **Python 3.7+**.

## Install with pip

It is highly recommended to install 🤗 `huggingface_hub` in a [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).
If you are unfamiliar with Python virtual environments, take a look at this [guide](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/).
A virtual environment makes it easier to manage different projects, and avoid compatibility issues between dependencies.

Start by creating a virtual environment in your project directory:

```bash
python -m venv .env
```

> Activate the virtual environment. On Linux and MacOs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Activate the virtual environment. On Linux and macOS:
```

```bash
source .env/bin/activate
```

> Activate Virtual environment on Windows

Reviewer: For consistency with above :)

```suggestion
Activate virtual environment on Windows:
```

```bash
.env/Scripts/activate
```

Now you're ready to install 🤗 `huggingface_hub` [from the PyPi registry](https://pypi.org/project/huggingface-hub/):

```bash
pip install --upgrade huggingface_hub
```

Once done, [check installation](#check-installation) is working correctly.

### Install optional dependencies

> Some dependencies of `huggingface_hub` are [optional](https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/dependency_management.html#optional-dependencies).
> When not installed, some `huggingface_hub` features might be disabled or degraded. Those dependencies
> are optional as they are not required to run the core features of `huggingface_hub`.

Reviewer: I think this is a little more concise and less negative sounding:

```suggestion
Some dependencies of `huggingface_hub` are [optional](https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/dependency_management.html#optional-dependencies) because they are not required to run the core features of `huggingface_hub`. However, some features of the `huggingface_hub` may not be available if the optional dependencies aren't installed.
```

You can install optional dependencies via `pip`:
```bash
# Install dependencies for tensorflow-specific features
# /!\ Warning: this is not equivalent to `pip install tensorflow`
pip install 'huggingface_hub[tensorflow]'

# Install dependencies for both torch-specific and CLI-specific features.
pip install 'huggingface_hub[cli,torch]'
```

Here is the list of optional dependencies in `huggingface_hub`:

> - `cli`: provide a more convenient CLI interface. `huggingface-cli` can still be run without these.

Reviewer: I would consider not mentioning the `huggingface-cli` to avoid confusion

```suggestion
- `cli`: provide a more convenient CLI interface for `huggingface_hub`.
```

> - `fastai`, `torch`, `tensorflow`: dependencies to run ML-specific features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `fastai`, `torch`, `tensorflow`: dependencies to run library specific features.
```

and need to test changes in the code. You need to clone a local copy of `huggingface_hub`
on your machine.

```bash
# First, clone repo locally
git clone https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub.git

# Then, install with -e flag
cd huggingface_hub
pip install -e .
```

These commands will link the folder you cloned the repository to and your Python library paths.
Python will now look inside the folder you cloned to in addition to the normal library paths.
For example, if your Python packages are typically installed in `./.venv/lib/python3.11/site-packages/`,
Python will also search the folder you cloned `./huggingface_hub/`.

## Install with conda

If you are more familiar with it, you can install 🤗 `huggingface_hub` using the [conda-forge channel](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/huggingface_hub):

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge huggingface_hub
```

Once done, [check installation](#check-installation) is working correctly.

## Check installation

Once installed, check that 🤗 `huggingface_hub` works properly by running the following command:

```bash
python -c "from huggingface_hub import model_info; print(model_info('gpt2'))"
```

> This command will fetch information from the Hub about [gpt2](https://huggingface.co/gpt2) model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will fetch information from the Hub about the [gpt2](https://huggingface.co/gpt2) model.
```

Output should look like this:

```text
Model Name: gpt2
Tags: ['pytorch', 'tf', 'jax', 'tflite', 'rust', 'safetensors', 'gpt2', 'text-generation', 'en', 'doi:10.57967/hf/0039', 'transformers', 'exbert', 'license:mit', 'has_space']
Task: text-generation
```

## Next steps

Once 🤗 `huggingface_hub` is properly installed on your machine, you might want

> [to configure it](configuration) or [check one of our guides](guides/overview) to get started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[to configure it](configuration) or [check one of our guides](guides/overview) to get started.
```
